index.md, before:

---
# Feel free to add content and custom Front Matter to this file.
# To modify the layout, see https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults

layout: splash
title: Bio-Nanoimaging Group
header:
  overlay_image: assets/images/banner.jpg
  overlay_filter: 0.4 # same as adding an opacity
---
We are a research group located at the [Leibniz Institute of Photonic Technology (LIPHT)](https://www.leibniz-ipht.de/en/homepage/) and the [Institute of Physical Chemistry at the Friedrich Schiller University](https://www.ipc.uni-jena.de/en/research-groups/heintzmann-group) in Jena, Germany.
The group is led by Rainer Heintzmann.

# Our Mission

Our group focuses both on developing novel methods and devices for light microscopy as well as on improving established techniques. 
We work on computational algorithms enhancing properties such as the resolution of microscopes using structured illumination (SIM).

Furthermore, We aim to support researchers around the world with imaging devices which are easy replicate. This includes low-cost (microscopic) imaging devices, but also image processing algorithms. See the [GitHub page of UC2](http://youseetoo.org) for further reference.

Recently, we started to work more on open source software regarding microscopy image processing in [Julia Lang](https://julialang.org/) on [GitHub](https://github.com/bionanoimaging/?q=&type=all&language=&sort=stargazers). See also [this software page](/software).

The [BioPOLIM](https://biopolim.de/) team is focussing on Anisotropy in Microscopic imaging in the Life and Materials Sciences

### Interested to join?
[See this page](/open_positions) for open positions and topics.


#### Contact
_Professor Dr. Rainer Heintzmann_<br>
_Email: [click here](https://mailhide.io/en/e/GKDvrXdl)_<br> 
_Phone: +49.(0)3641 206 431_<br>
_Leibniz-Institut für Photonische Technologien e.V._<br>
_Albert-Einstein-Straße 9_<br>
_07745 Jena, Germany_<br>

Commit message:

added 'tools for optical laboratory' page

index.md, after:

---
# Feel free to add content and custom Front Matter to this file.
# To modify the layout, see https://jekyllrb.com/docs/themes/#overriding-theme-defaults

layout: splash
title: Bio-Nanoimaging Group
header:
  overlay_image: assets/images/banner.jpg
  overlay_filter: 0.4 # same as adding an opacity
---
We are a research group located at the [Leibniz Institute of Photonic Technology (LIPHT)](https://www.leibniz-ipht.de/en/homepage/) and the [Institute of Physical Chemistry at the Friedrich Schiller University](https://www.ipc.uni-jena.de/en/research-groups/heintzmann-group) in Jena, Germany.
The group is led by Rainer Heintzmann.

# Our Mission

Our group focuses both on developing novel methods and devices for light microscopy as well as on improving established techniques. 
We work on computational algorithms enhancing properties such as the resolution of microscopes using structured illumination (SIM).

Furthermore, We aim to support researchers around the world with imaging devices which are easy replicate. This includes low-cost (microscopic) imaging devices, but also image processing algorithms. See the [GitHub page of UC2](http://youseetoo.org) for further reference.

Recently, we started to work more on open source software regarding microscopy image processing in [Julia Lang](https://julialang.org/) on [GitHub](https://github.com/bionanoimaging/?q=&type=all&language=&sort=stargazers). See also [this software page](/software).

The [BioPOLIM](https://biopolim.de/) team is focussing on Anisotropy in Microscopic imaging in the Life and Materials Sciences

Additionally, we made tiny apps and hardware gadgets, which target to ease daily work in the optical laboratory. See [this page](/toolsforLab) with the list of the gadget. 



### Interested to join?
[See this page](/open_positions) for open positions and topics.


#### Contact
_Professor Dr. Rainer Heintzmann_<br>
_Email: [click here](https://mailhide.io/en/e/GKDvrXdl)_<br> 
_Phone: +49.(0)3641 206 431_<br>
_Leibniz-Institut für Photonische Technologien e.V._<br>
_Albert-Einstein-Straße 9_<br>
_07745 Jena, Germany_<br>
